So there's also switch expressions.
So these are similar to
the switch statements, but
they allow you to directly
assign a value to a variable.
All right, so
we're going to copy that code we just
wrote will copy it into a new class.
And we're gonna use a switch expression to
print the message versus a statement so
you can see the difference, okay.
So let's go back to our ID.
And if we go over to the project let's
right-click on grade message and
choose copy and
then on decision structure paste and
they'll ask you to rename this because you
can't have two classes with the same name.
So we'll just do _switchexpressions
All right.
So right here where we have string
message what we're doing in
this which structure is where
assigning a value to message well
You can do all of this with an expression
expressions are specifically switch
expressions were specifically designed for
this sort of switch statement, right.
This is like a lot of bulk in
order to just assign something.
So instead I can say
string message equals and
then on the right hand side of this
statement, I would use the switch.
So I can say I can just move this
switch up to the right hand side.
So I'm gonna switch on grade, I still
have my curly braces and all of that.
The way that the cases
are written changes a bit.
So it's a bit more streamlined,
instead of this :,
after the case, I use a- and
an >, a caret, right caret,
to make an arrow.
And then I put the mess,
whatever I want the message to be.
So I'm gonna erase message=, and
we'll just put Excellent job.
You don't need break statements
with switch expressions because
there is no fall through, all right?
So this is not even needed, all right?
So let's go ahead and
clean all the rest of these up.
Notice how
streamlined this is.
Okay.
>> Do you still have to initialize it?
>> Let's see.
All right, we're gonna write the default
one and then I'll comment it out.
All right, and
then we just end this with a semicolon.
Much more streamlined, right?
All right, so let's comment out default.
And it looks like you
don't need the default and
you don't need to do some
special initialization of it.
>> So the switch will always return.
>> It has to return something.
You want to see what happens if we put
z I do all right let's print this out.
I'm gonna run this
without the default case.
Okay, so great.
It does not have a compile error meaning
it didn't complain before we run it, but
there's a runtime error that says.
The switch expression does not
cover all possible values.
So, we did in fact get an error,
but at runtime.
So, you do need the default.
[LAUGH] Great question,
any other questions?
Let's run it and with a good case.
So enter our letter grade, let's say C.
And yep, good job.
Okay, so that works.
Now if you want it the effects
of maybe follow through or
you basically just had two cases with
the same code that you wanted to execute.
You don't want to like ever just
kind of be repeating stuff like for
example something like that,
that's not good.
Notice they even have a little squiggly
line, like, what are you doing here?
All right, so if I had,
like if I wanted to say the same thing for
two cases,
I would simply do a comma delimited list,
and for both of those cases,
it would print that.
Let's say that you wanted to execute
multiple statements because this one
little arrow is really cute but what if
you had to do four or five statements?
You could probably just
add curly braces and
then you can write whatever
you want to write.
It needs to be statements, but your final
line a lot of that has to be yield.
You have to yield back some value because
remember the whole purpose of the switch
expressions is to assign
some value to something.
So maybe you need to do some sort
of calculation to get that value.
But your last statement must be a yield.
Great.
Okay, last but not least,
switch expressions they're
not over placement for,
switch statements,
basically there's cases for both.
For statements, you would want to use
those when you essentially
want to execute code.
It's not a matter of assignment.
You just need to execute something based
on a condition versus a switch expression
is when you need to conditionally
assign a value to a variable.
Okay.
All right, questions.
Yes.
>> Are you seeing so
before us the yield you can
have different statements?
>> Yes.
All right, so let's say we may want
to print something out, print.
And you can do whatever you want, right?
You can have however many statements
that final line has to be a yield.
Is that used anywhere outside of a case or
a switch statement?
>> That arrow in lambda expressions.
>> So
it's relatively new to the Java language,
the use of the arrow,
starting I think like Java 8-ish.
But yeah it's used for
these and switch expressions is
like kind of brand new to
the language maybe a year and
it's used in lambda expressions.